README.md, before:

# ETL Dashboard

A FastAPI + Flask application for auditable ETL processing of Excel workbooks, producing Power BI-ready outputs.

## Features

- **Upload & Preview**: Upload Excel workbooks and preview sheet contents
- **Data Profiling**: Analyze data quality, types, and statistics
- **ETL Processing**: Clean and transform MasterBOM and Status sheets
- **Multiple Outputs**: CSV, Parquet, and SQLite formats
- **Power BI Ready**: Includes connectors, measures, and data dictionary

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- pip or conda

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd ETL_Dashboard
```

2. Create environment (choose one):

**Option A: Conda Environment (Recommended)**
```bash
conda create -n etl_dashboard python=3.11 -y
conda activate etl_dashboard
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Option B: Virtual Environment**
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Set up environment:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

4. Create data directories:
```bash
mkdir -p data/uploads data/processed data/pipeline_output
```

### Running the Application

#### Option 1: Development Script (Recommended)
```bash
python run_dev.py
```
This starts both backend and frontend servers with auto-reload enabled.

#### Option 2: Two Separate Processes

**If using conda environment, activate it first:**
```bash
conda activate etl_dashboard
```

Terminal 1 - FastAPI Backend:
```bash
uvicorn backend.main:app --reload --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8000
```

Terminal 2 - Flask Frontend:
```bash
FLASK_APP=frontend.app flask run --host 127.0.0.1 --port 5000
```

#### Option 3: Docker Compose
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

### Access the Application

- Frontend: http://localhost:5000
- Backend API: http://localhost:8000
- API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs

## Usage

1. **Upload**: Select an Excel workbook (.xlsx)
2. **Select Sheets**: Choose exactly two sheets (MasterBOM and Status)
3. **Preview**: Review sample data from selected sheets
4. **Profile**: Analyze data quality and statistics
5. **Transform**: Run ETL process and download results

## Outputs

The ETL process generates:

- `masterbom_clean.csv/parquet` - Cleaned MasterBOM data
- `status_clean.csv/parquet` - Cleaned Status data
- `plant_item_status.csv/parquet` - Normalized long table
- `fact_parts.csv/parquet` - Part facts for analytics
- `dim_dates.csv/parquet` - Date dimension
- `etl.sqlite` - All tables in SQLite format

## Power BI Integration

See `powerbi/` directory for:
- Power Query M scripts
- DAX measures
- Data dictionary

## Testing

Run all tests:
```bash
pytest tests/ -v
```

Run specific test categories:
```bash
# Unit tests only
pytest tests/test_cleaning.py tests/test_profiler.py -v

# Integration tests
pytest tests/test_api_integration.py -v -m integration

# Skip slow tests
pytest tests/ -v -m "not slow"
```

## Development

Format and lint code:
```bash
black .
ruff check .
```

Run development server with auto-reload:
```bash
python run_dev.py
```

## Project Structure

```
etl-dashboard/
├── backend/           # FastAPI application
├── frontend/          # Flask application  
├── data/             # Upload and processed data
├── powerbi/          # Power BI integration files
├── tests/            # Test suite
└── requirements.txt  # Dependencies
```

Commit message:

Remove deprecated files and scripts, including minimal requirements, local development runner, simplified server runner, and installation validation script. Add new test scripts for styling and upload functionality, along with enhanced HTML templates for Vercel deployment.

README.md, after:

# ETL Dashboard

A FastAPI + Flask application for auditable ETL processing of Excel workbooks, producing Power BI-ready outputs.

## Features

- **Upload & Preview**: Upload Excel workbooks and preview sheet contents
- **Data Profiling**: Analyze data quality, types, and statistics
- **ETL Processing**: Clean and transform MasterBOM and Status sheets
- **Multiple Outputs**: CSV, Parquet, and SQLite formats
- **Power BI Ready**: Includes connectors, measures, and data dictionary

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- pip or conda

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd ETL_Dashboard
```

2. Create environment (choose one):

**Option A: Conda Environment (Recommended)**
```bash
conda create -n etl_dashboard python=3.11 -y
conda activate etl_dashboard
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Option B: Virtual Environment**
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Set up environment:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

4. Create data directories:
```bash
mkdir -p data/uploads data/processed data/pipeline_output
```

### Running the Application

#### Option 1: Development Script (Recommended)
```bash
python run_dev.py
```
This starts both backend and frontend servers with auto-reload enabled.

#### Option 2: Two Separate Processes

**If using conda environment, activate it first:**
```bash
conda activate etl_dashboard
```

Terminal 1 - FastAPI Backend:
```bash
uvicorn backend.main:app --reload --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8000
```

Terminal 2 - Flask Frontend:
```bash
FLASK_APP=frontend.app flask run --host 127.0.0.1 --port 5000
```

#### Option 3: Docker Compose
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

#### Option 4: Vercel Deployment
The application is also deployed on Vercel with serverless functions:
```bash
# Deploy to production
vercel --prod

# Deploy to preview
vercel
```

### Access the Application

- **Local Frontend**: http://localhost:5000
- **Local Backend API**: http://localhost:8000  
- **Local API Documentation**: http://localhost:8000/docs
- **Vercel Production**: https://etl-dashboard-1l8f7caj4-storbiics-projects.vercel.app

## Usage

1. **Upload**: Select an Excel workbook (.xlsx)
2. **Select Sheets**: Choose exactly two sheets (MasterBOM and Status)
3. **Preview**: Review sample data from selected sheets
4. **Profile**: Analyze data quality and statistics
5. **Transform**: Run ETL process and download results

## Outputs

The ETL process generates:

- `masterbom_clean.csv/parquet` - Cleaned MasterBOM data
- `status_clean.csv/parquet` - Cleaned Status data
- `plant_item_status.csv/parquet` - Normalized long table
- `fact_parts.csv/parquet` - Part facts for analytics
- `dim_dates.csv/parquet` - Date dimension
- `etl.sqlite` - All tables in SQLite format

## Power BI Integration

See `powerbi/` directory for:
- Power Query M scripts
- DAX measures
- Data dictionary

## Testing

Run all tests:
```bash
pytest tests/ -v
```

Run specific test categories:
```bash
# Unit tests only
pytest tests/test_cleaning.py tests/test_profiler.py -v

# Integration tests
pytest tests/test_api_integration.py -v -m integration

# Skip slow tests
pytest tests/ -v -m "not slow"
```

## Development

Format and lint code:
```bash
black .
ruff check .
```

Run development server with auto-reload:
```bash
python run_dev.py
```

## Project Structure

```
etl-dashboard/
├── backend/           # FastAPI application
├── frontend/          # Flask application  
├── data/             # Upload and processed data
├── powerbi/          # Power BI integration files
├── tests/            # Test suite
└── requirements.txt  # Dependencies
```
